                Call For Papers, ICPC 2008
   16th IEEE International Conference on Program Comprehension
        10-13 June, 2008, Amsterdam, The Netherlands
              http://www.cs.vu.nl/icpc2008/

                     Keynote Speaker	
                   Prof. Suraj Kothari
      "Scalable Program Comprehension to Improve 
                  Productivity and Quality of Software"

Program comprehension is a frequent software engineering activity 
involved in practically all stages of the software development
life cycle. Developers need to understand the system they work on
in order to fix its bugs, enhance its functionalities, and reengineer
it for a different environment.
Software systems have been becoming more complex - think
of language cocktails, multi-threaded and asynchronous programming, 
multi-tier architectures, cross-platform compilation, abstraction 
mechanisms for separations of concerns, loose coupling, and
so on. As a result, program comprehension is getting more challenging 
but also desperately more needed.
The International Conference on Program Comprehension (ICPC) is the 
premier forum on program comprehension. The conference covers related 
subjects such as software analysis, software visualization, reverse 
engineering, and software evolution. ICPC 2008 is the 16th edition 
of the conference since its first holding (originally as a workshop) 
in 1992. ICPC 2008 will provide an opportunity for researchers and 
practitioners from academia, industry and government, to present 
and discuss state-of-the-art and best-practices results in the field. 
There are these forms of participation: the presentation of a regular 
research paper, the organization of affiliated events and participation
in those, as well as the presentation of a poster or a tool demo.

Topics of interest
Here is a non-exhaustive list: (i) cognitive theories for software
comprehension, including experiments and case studies; (ii) software 
visualization, program analysis and model-driven techniques
in support of software comprehension; (iii) issues specific to the
comprehension of specific types of systems, such as legacy systems, 
object-oriented frameworks, web-based systems, COTS, software product 
lines, and notably large-scale systems; (iv) comprehension in the 
context of specific life cycle activities such as maintenance, 
reengineering, migration, inspection before purchase, security 
auditing, and testing.

Technical papers
Papers must describe original work and are limited to approximately 
6000 words (up to 10 pages in the IEEE CS proceedings
style). Submissions must not have been previously published nor
be currently submitted to, or be in consideration for, any journal,
book, or conference. Papers accepted for publication will require at
least one author to attend the event and present the work. A number
of technical paper submissions may be accepted as short papers.
Affiliated events
Like in the past, ICPC will affiliate with a number of working
sessions or workshops. These are typically half-day events that
are meant as forums for groups of people who want to engage
in research in the same subfield. The affiliated events foster the
exchange of ideas and advance the state of research in this field
through focused interactions of the participants. A description of
each event will be included in the conference proceedings.

Posters and tool demos
Posters will be exhibited in their own separate session, to foster
informal exchanges between the exhibitors and the participants.
Poster submissions are not required to cover completed major research 
results. There is going to be a session for tool demos covering both 
industry-strength tools and academic prototypes. Accepted posters and 
tool demonstrations will be included in the conference proceedings 
(up to 4 pages in the IEEE CS proceedings style). The poster/tool 
proposals should indicate the novelty of the approach and how the ideas 
will be presented.

Special theme
Program comprehension naturally covers different scopes: procedures, 
modules, components, frameworks, product lines, systems, and ultimately 
conglomerations of integrated, interacting or mutually depended systems. 
This time, ICPC further stretches the boundaries by explicitly calling 
out the scope of a portfolio, and adding portfolio comprehension to the 
list of topics. Think of a portfolio as a set of software systems in a 
given business. Given this scope, particular comprehension needs arise 
such as those related to portfolio management, i.e., comprehension 
helps with decision making regarding outsourcing, renewal, retirement 
or replacement of parts of the portfolio. Regular submissions and 
affiliated events are welcome to address the theme of portfolio 
comprehension in addition to any of the other topics.

SCP Special Issue
A selection of the best ICPC 2008 papers will be considered for a 
special issue in the Science of Computer Programming journal, subject 
to additional revisions and review. 

Workshops
ICPC 2008 will host several satellite workshops: 
- International Workshop on Semantic Technologies in 
  System Maintenance (STSM).
- Working Session on Industrial Realities of Program Comprehension


Contacts
General Chair: Chris Verhoef, VU University, Amsterdam, The
Netherlands, x@cs.vu.nl; Program Co-Chairs: Rene Krikhaar,
ICT NoviQ, The Netherlands, rene.krikhaar@ict.nl and Ralf 
Laemmel, Universität Koblenz-Landau, Germany, laemmel@uni-koblenz.de

Venue
The main conference and the affiliated events will be held in `The
Trippenhuis', headquarters of Royal Netherlands Academy of Arts
and Sciences (cf. http://www.knaw.nl/english), a 17th
century building in the heart of Amsterdam, in walking distance
from the central station and suitable hotels.
Amsterdam is a major hub for the whole of Europe. Schiphol
International Airport has direct scheduled connections to many
cities in the world. The airport is located about 15 kilometers (10
miles) from the center of Amsterdam; the central station can be
reached by train easily in approximately 20 minutes.

Important dates
* January 25, 2008: Abstract submissions due
* February 1, 2008: Paper submissions due (extended)
* February 10, 2008: Poster and tool submissions due
* March 1, 2008: Notifications sent to authors
* March 15, 2008: Camera-ready papers due


